---
title: "Building a Blog with AI"
date: 2025-05-03
description: "This post walk through how I built my blog with the help of Claude and ChatGPT"
---

## Introduction

I build my blog from scratch using AI and Next.js. While Claude generated most of the code, I had to tweak it significantly to make it compile and work. I used GitHub Pages for hosting. It took me around 3-4 hours, most of the time spent on trouble shooting due to the code generated by Claude is not up to date. So I have to google and stackoverflow quite a lot. It's fascinating how quickly I got it running, this will take days if I write everything by myself.

## Technical Setup

Its build with Next.js, react, and a few additional packages for displaying markdown. When I run "npm run build" it compiles the entire website into static content so there is no backend API calls or databases. This follows the principle of simplicity.

GitHub serves as my 'database' - it stores my source code and host the blog. I must emphasize that this task **can't** be done without coding experience. You need to be very technical to fix the compile error and unblock yourself. ChatGPT hallucinated several times when it cannot find the correct answer (maybe I didn't prompt correctly). Either way I feel only a skilled developer can effectively use AI and complete this project.

## Challenges

I encountered several TypeScript compile errors, which can be fixed by either adjusting the types, such as

```ts
export default async function Post({
     params }: { params: Promise<{slug: string}> })
```

Or mute TypeScript error for a quick fix

```jsx
<Link href={`/${post.slug}`}>
{/* 
// @ts-expect-error: Ignore */}
{post.frontMatter.title}
</Link>
```

But the toughest part was deploying to GitHub Pages, I need to add a [.nojekyll](https://github.blog/news-insights/bypassing-jekyll-on-github-pages/) file so that deployment in GitHub Actions can include "_next" folder that has css. And sadly ChatGPT has no clue, seems Google search is still very much needed.

## Conclusion

When working with relatively new or fast-evolving technology like Next.js, AI can generate outdated code. In these cases, Developer experience is essential - to read compile error or documentations to get back on track.

It seems we have traded hands-on coding for speed by offloading much of the code to AI. Now that we don't write most of the code ourselves, how do we keep our skills sharp?